DeviceService bundle added to streaming analytic EPL app to support MQTT service[PAB-4924] (#3907)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/analytics/apama-in-c8y-20251112-deviceservicebundle-mqtt-service-support.md

---
date: 2025-11-12
title: DeviceService bundle for MQTT Service support in EPL Apps
change_type:
  - value: change-2c7RdTdXo4
    label: Improvement
product_area: Analytics
component:
  - value: component-M5-cepIIS
    label: Streaming Analytics
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-KXXmo2SUR
    label: apama-in-c8y
ticket: PAB-4924
version: 
---

> EPL Apps now has support for connecting to {{< product-c8y-iot >}} MQTT Service with new DeviceService API . This allows handling of device-native messages sent to the MQTT Service within {{< product-c8y-iot >}} EPL Apps. For more details see [Using {{< product-c8y-iot >}} MQTT Service](/streaming-analytics/epl-apps/#using-cumulocity-mqtt-service).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
EPL Apps now supports connecting to the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} MQTT Service with the new DeviceService API. This allows handling of device-native messages sent to the MQTT Service within {{< product-c8y-iot >}} EPL Apps. For more details, see [Using {{< product-c8y-iot >}} MQTT Service](/streaming-analytics/epl-apps/#using-cumulocity-mqtt-service).
```

---
date: 2025-11-12
title: DeviceService bundle for MQTT Service support in EPL Apps
change_type:
  - value: change-2c7RdTdXo4
    label: Preview
product_area: Analytics
component:
  - value: component-M5-cepIIS
    label: Streaming Analytics
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-KXXmo2SUR
    label: apama-in-c8y
ticket: PAB-4924

> version: 

Reviewer 2: please add appropriate version

Reviewer 3: added version [e29ce12](https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/c8y-docs/pull/3907/commits/e29ce127452016a7db4ad37e3b67c781bca9c124)

---

EPL Apps now supports connecting to the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} MQTT Service with the new DeviceService API. This allows handling of device-native messages sent to the MQTT Service within {{< product-c8y-iot >}} EPL Apps. For more details, see [Using {{< product-c8y-iot >}} MQTT Service](/streaming-analytics/epl-apps/#using-cumulocity-mqtt-service).

For detailed configuration options and the API reference for the DeviceService bundle, see [The DeviceService bundle]({{< link-apama-webhelp >}}/standard-connectivity-plugins/device-service/).

> 

Reviewer 4: Particularly if we don't change the date on the other one as above, I would put a line here saying "This replaces the deprecated MQTTService API".

Reviewer 3: added replacement note [e29ce12](https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/c8y-docs/pull/3907/commits/e29ce127452016a7db4ad37e3b67c781bca9c124)

---
date: 2025-11-12
title: DeviceService bundle for MQTT Service support in EPL Apps
change_type:
  - value: change-2c7RdTdXo4
    label: Preview
product_area: Analytics
component:
  - value: component-M5-cepIIS
    label: Streaming Analytics
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-KXXmo2SUR
    label: apama-in-c8y
ticket: PAB-4924
version: 26.257.0
---

EPL Apps now supports connecting to the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} MQTT Service with the new DeviceService API. This allows handling of device-native messages sent to the MQTT Service within {{< product-c8y-iot >}} EPL Apps. For more details, see [Using {{< product-c8y-iot >}} MQTT Service](/streaming-analytics/epl-apps/#using-cumulocity-mqtt-service).

For detailed configuration options and the API reference for the DeviceService bundle, see [The DeviceService bundle]({{< link-apama-webhelp >}}/standard-connectivity-plugins/device-service/).

> This replaces the deprecated MQTTService API.

Reviewer 2: please be specific on what you mean by deprecated MQTTService api ... Do you mean MQTT Service API that is being rolled out to GA or do you refer to the old apama bundle?

Reviewer 3: refined the replacement statement. [c916fad](https://github.com/Cumulocity-IoT/c8y-docs/pull/3907/commits/c916fad757caa0d8b6058bf9ab39fa62d42c69df)
